Experiment-2 
Explore Git and GitHub commands 
 
Program Objectives: The objective of this experiment is to familiarize yourself 
with essential Git and GitHub commands commonly used in day-to-day 
development workflows. Through this experiment, you will learn how to initialize a 
Git repository, track changes, create branches, collaborate with remote 
repositories on GitHub, and manage version history. 
Description: In this experiment, you will explore fundamental Git and GitHub 
commands and their functionalities. These commands will help you understand 
version control concepts and enable you to efficiently manage your project's 
source code. 
List of Git and GitHub Commands: 
1. git init: Creates a new empty Git repository in the current directory. 
2. git status: Shows the current status of your files in the Git repository, indicating 
which files are staged, modified, or untracked. 
3. git add: Stages changes (new files, modifications, deletions) in the current 
directory. 
 Example: 
 git add . - stages all files in the current directory. 
 git add file.txt - stages file.txt in the Git directory. 
4. git commit: Saves staged changes to the local repository, creating a new 
commit with a snapshot of the changes along with a commit message to describe 
the changes. 
 Example: git commit -m "my first file for website design" 
5. git branch -M main: Renames the current branch to "main". 
6. git remote add origin <URL>: Links your local Git repository with a remote 
repository hosted on a service like GitHub. 
 Example: git remote add origin 
https://github.com/NAGENDRASAICH/myproject.git 
7. git push -u origin main: Pushes local commits from the main branch of your 
local repository to the remote repository named "origin" on a branch also named 
"main". 
8. git branch: Lists all branches in your local repository and highlights the current 
branch. 
9. git checkout -b <branch_name>: Creates a new branch. 
 Example: git checkout -b sreyasnewproject 
10. git reset: Undoes a commit. 
 Example: git reset HEAD file.txt - unstages changes for a specific file named 
file.txt. 
11. git fetch: Downloads changes from a remote repository into the local 
repository. 
12. git merge: Merges changes from one branch into another branch. 
13. git clone: Clones a remote repository into a new directory on your local 
machine. 
 Example: git clone https://github.com/example/example.git 
14. git log: Displays a history of commits in the repository. 
15. git pull: Fetches and downloads content from a remote repository and 
immediately updates the local repository to match that content. 
Program Outcomes: Upon completion of this experiment, you will be able to: 
 Initialize a Git repository and track changes. 
 Create branches and manage version history effectively. 
 Collaborate with remote repositories on platforms like GitHub. 
Understand the importance of version control in software development 
workflows. 
