
Experiment-3. 
Practice Source code management on GitHub. Experiment with the 
source code written in exercise 1. 
Program Objectives: The objective of this experiment is to demonstrate the 
process of managing source code using Git and GitHub. You will learn how to 
initialize a local Git repository, add and commit changes to it, and then push those 
changes to a remote repository on GitHub. Through this hands-on demonstration, 
you will understand the workflow involved in source code management and 
collaboration using version control systems. 
Description: In this experiment, you will practice source code management using 
Git and GitHub. You will start by initializing a local Git repository in your project 
directory, adding your source code files to the repository, and committing changes 
with descriptive commit messages. Then, you will create a remote repository on 
GitHub and link it with your local repository. Finally, you will push your local 
commits to the remote repository on GitHub, making your source code accessible 
to collaborators and enabling seamless collaboration and version control. 
Steps: 
Step-1:Place your file in any folder 
for example my file is 1.html . So , i will place that file in a folder named “projects” in 
my Desktop location 
step-2: Open terminal in the same location where your file (1.html) is located and 
type following commands: 
git init 
it will initialize  new empty Git repository in the current directory where, 1.html is 
located 
git status 
it Shows the current status of your files in the Git repository 
initially, my file 1.html is not stored it git repository , so it will show 1.html it red 
colour, which indicates that our file 1.html is not transferred to git repositroy, now 
we need to move our file to git repository 
 
git add .   
 It will move all files which are present in my folder to git repository 
 
git status 
now, status will display “1.html” in green colour, which indicates that our file “1.html” 
is transferred to git repository 
 
“this is how we transfer files to git repository” 
now other task is to transfer files from git to github repository: 
step-1: 
open git hub website  
step 2: 
generate token and save it any location in your system 
open github website -> settings -> Developer settings -> personal access tokens -> 
Token (classic) ->generate new token -> give any name to your token and accept all checkboxes > 
generate token  
now save that token no in text editor for future use 
generally we need token to trasfer files from git to github website 
step-3: 
now create repository with any name 
for example : here, i will give my repository name as “my repositroy: 
step-4: 
now we need to create branch and move 1.html which is located in git repository to 
git hub website 
so run these commands: 
git commit -m “myfirstcode” 
git branch -M master 
git remote add origin https://github.com/NAGENDRASAICH/my-repository.git 
git push -u origin master 
 
enter user name and password(token no) 
now you file is successfully transferred to git hub webiste fo git repository 
Program Outcomes: Upon completion of this experiment, you will be able to: 
1. Initialize a local Git repository for your project. 
2. Add source code files to the local repository and commit changes with meaningful 
commit messages. 
3. Create a remote repository on GitHub to host your project. 
4. Link your local Git repository with the remote repository on GitHub. 
5. Push your local commits to the remote repository on GitHub, enabling 
collaboration and version control. 
6. Understand the importance of source code management and version control in 
software development projects.
