Experiment-7: 
Develop a simple containerized application using Docker 
Program Objectives: 
1. Introduction to Containerization: Understand the concept of 
containerization and its benefits in application development and 
deployment. 
2. Familiarization with Docker: Gain familiarity with Docker, a popular 
containerization platform, and its basic usage. 
3. Creating Docker Images: Learn how to create Docker images containing 
application files and dependencies. 
4. Running Docker Containers: Understand the process of running Docker 
containers from created images. 
5. Basic Application Deployment: Gain hands-on experience in deploying a 
simple application within a Docker container. 
 
Program Description: 
In this program, you will learn how to containerize a simple application using 
Docker. The application consists of a single HTML file (1.html). You will follow 
these steps: 
1. Create HTML File: Begin by creating a simple HTML file (1.html) with some 
content. This file will serve as the content of your containerized application. 
2. Write Dockerfile: Create a Dockerfile, a text file that contains instructions for 
building a Docker image. In the Dockerfile, specify the base image, copy the 
HTML file into the image, and define any necessary configurations. 
3. Build Docker Image: Use the Docker CLI to build a Docker image based on 
the Dockerfile you created. This process involves executing the docker build 
command with appropriate parameters. 
6. Run Docker Container: Once the Docker image is built successfully, use the 
docker run command to instantiate a Docker container from the created 
image. Specify any necessary options such as port mappings or volume 
mounts. 
7. Access Application: Access the running application by opening a web 
browser and navigating to the appropriate URL, typically 
http://localhost:<port> if port mapping was configured. 
 
 
sudo docker run -d -p 8888:80 --name my-html-container my-html-image 
rhttp://localhost: – if port mapping was configured

Docker is an open-source container platform designed to build, distribute, and run applications inside containers. In comparison to the traditional virtualization functionalities of hypervisors, Docker containers eliminate the need for the separate guest operating system. Docker includes components such as Docker client, Docker server, Docker machine, Docker hub, Docker compose, etc.

⸻

Advantages of Docker:
	•	It runs containers in seconds instead of minutes.
	•	It uses less memory.
	•	It provides lightweight virtualization.
	•	It does not require a separate full operating system to run an application.
	•	It uses application dependencies to reduce the risk.
	•	Docker allows you to use a remote repository to share your containers with others.

⸻

Docker Architecture:

What is Docker’s daemon?
Docker runs on the host operating system. It is responsible for running containers and managing Docker services.
Docker daemon communicates with other daemons. It offers various Docker objects such as images, containers, networking, and storage.

Docker follows client-server architecture, which includes the three main components that are Docker client, Docker host, and Docker registry.

Docker client:
Docker client uses commands and REST APIs to communicate with the Docker daemon (server).
Docker Commands

Docker Images Commands:
	•	docker pull – to pull an image from Docker Hub.
	•	docker commit – saves the state of a container into a new image.
	•	docker build – it will create an image by using a Dockerfile.
	•	docker images – list all local images.
	•	docker run – to create a container from the image.
	•	docker pull – to download image from repository.
	•	docker rmi – to delete a local image.

⸻

Docker Containers and its Commands

Container: It’s a running instance of an image.
	•	docker ps – to list all running containers.
	•	docker ps -a – lists all containers including stopped ones.
	•	docker start – to start a stopped container.
	•	docker stop – to stop running containers.
	•	docker top – to display processes of a container.
	•	docker pause – to pause a container.
	•	docker rm – to delete a container.
	•	docker exit – to quit from the container.
	•	docker commit – to create an image from the container.
	•	docker exec – to enter into a running container.

⸻

Practice Commands
	1.	Ubuntu update: sudo apt update
	2.	Docker installation: sudo apt install docker.io
	3.	To display Docker version: sudo docker version
	4.	Pull Docker image: (incomplete in notebook)
1. a) sudo docker pull nginx
b) sudo docker pull centos:7
c) sudo docker pull python
2. To display list of images: sudo docker images
3. Container creation or run container.
a) sudo docker run -it image id (python)
* Ex: sudo docker run -it a4b7090c817b
b) sudo docker run -it image id (nginx)
* Ex: sudo docker run -it 07cfd8783e75
4. To come back to ubuntu terminal: ctrl + c or exit or ctrl + x
5. To display list of containers: sudo docker ps -a
6. To start docker container:
a) sudo docker start container id (python)
* Ex: sudo docker start 4c193b60797f
b) sudo docker start container id (nginx)
* Ex: sudo docker start 58691298fc2
7. To see the running status: sudo docker ps -a
• O/P: Status is Changed.
8. To remove image: sudo docker rmi image ID
9. To remove container: sudo docker rm container ID
10. To stop the container: sudo docker pause container ID
11. To pause the container: sudo docker pause container ID
12. To display your container in 8080 port: sudo docker run -p 8080:80 nginx use public IP of AWS instance with 8080 port
